#`voidsplash`: simple animated boot splash for runit

`voidsplash` provides a simple animated splash screen. Designed with
[voidlinux](http://voidlinux.eu/) in mind, voidsplash should work anywhere runit
is used as PID 1 and with minimal modification with any other init system.
`voidsplash` does not require any modification to the kernel or the initramfs.

`voidsplash` displays invidual images on a framebuffer device during the boot
process.

##Dependencies

`voidsplash` requires a POSIX compatible shell (tested with `dash`), a working
framebuffer device and `fbv` (an image viewer for the framebuffer). 

On voidlinux:

    # xbps-install -S fbv

Ensure that your framebuffer is working by running `fbv` on a virtual console
with an image of your choice: (`fbv` should support png, jpeg and bmp depending
on compile time options)

    # fbv -cike image.png

Press `q` to exit `fbv`.

##Installation

Copy `voidsplash` to `/bin` (alternatively, `voidsplash` can be installed
anywhere but should be on the root partition so that it can be accessed before
disks are mounted). Make sure that it is executable.

`voidsplash` should be executed as early in the boot process as possible. At the
beginning of `/etc/runit/1`:

    #!/bin/sh
    /bin/voidsplash

Create the directory `/etc/voidsplash/`. This will contain the frames to display
while the system is booting.

##Configuration

voidsplash can be configured by means of shell variables inside
`voidsplash`. Current options are:

- `SPEED` sets the time, in seconds, to show each frame. This is an argument to
  `sleep`---fractional values may be used

- `TARGETSV` is the name of a runit service that voidsplash waits for. Once this
  service is running, voidsplash will exit. **If this service does not exist or
  is not started at boot, voidsplash will never exit**. If you wish to use
  voidsplash without runit, you will need to modify the program to ensure it
  exits.

Place individual frames in `/etc/voidsplash`. It is recommended that files are
named sequentially (for example, void-0.png void-1.png void-2.png …). `fbv` will
scale images to the size of the display without changing the aspect ratio. If
you do not want black bars make sure that the images have the same aspect ratio
as the monitor.

If you have an animated gif you wish to use, ImageMagick can be used to create
individual frames:

    $ convert void.gif -coalesce void.png

will create `void-0.png void-1.png …` with individual frames from `void.gif`.

##Hiding boot messages

Boot messages will get garbled up with `voidsplash`. This can be fixed by
sending these messages to a different virtual console. Add to boot options:

    console=tty2

To send the boot messages to the second virtual console (if using grub, add to
`GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX_DEFAULT` in `/etc/default/grub` then run `grub-mkconfig -o
/boot/grub/grub.cfg`).
